---
title: Week 10
permalink: /wk10/
---

> Reminder that you **must complete the pre-reading before each class**.
<br><br>
On this page:  
✔️ [Pre-reading for Tuesday 3/30](#tues)  
✔️ [Pre-reading for Thursday 4/1](#thurs) 

---

#### Pre-Reading for BST Analysis, Tuesday 3/30 {#tues}

##### Essential Questions
Before attending class, please complete the material below and use the following questions to guide your note-taking:  
<br>
✔️ What is the average and worst time complexity of inserting into a BST?  
✔️ What is the average and worst time complexity of deleting from a BST?  
✔️ What is the average and worst time complexity of searching a BST?  

##### Read/Watch/Review
Before attending class, please complete the material below:
- Read [BST Analysis](/files/bst-analysis.pdf)
	- Note that the worst-case given assumes a balanced tree; ideally want to define in terms of height rather than nodes (since height will give us a more accurate answer). Watch video below to understand time complexity in terms of height.
- Watch [Time Complexities of Binary Search Trees Operations](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tEoyeoHmqlk) (10 min)

##### In Class
In today's class we'll be reviewing and applying BST Analysis concepts, as well as reviewing [Final Project](/final) info.

---

#### Pre-Reading for BST Implementation, Thursday 4/1 {#thurs}

##### Essential Questions

<br>
✔️ What're the steps necessary to **insert an element** into a BST?  
✔️ What're the steps necessary to **delete an element** from a BST?  
✔️ What're the steps necessary to **search for an element** in a BST?  
✔️ What're the steps necessary to determine the height of a BST?  
✔️ What're the steps necessary to determine if a BST is full or complete?  

##### Read/Watch/Review
Before attending class, please complete the material below:
- Read the [Lab 10 Handout](/lab10)
- Watch [Binary Search Trees (BST) Explained in Animated Demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mtvbVLK5xDQ) (6 min)
- Review the [slides from Tuesday's class](/slides) (for height)
- Review the [Lab 9 Handout](/lab10) (for fullness and completeness)

##### In Class
In today's class we'll be continuing to work on our lab's BST implementation.